= DBBackup -- Rake Script

This package contains DBBackup, a simple mysql backup tool to handle
mysql backups from multiple servers and projects via SSH.

DBBackup has the following features:

* Configurable backup sources

* Generate and download MySQL Dumps via SSH and store them locally with timestamp.

* Configurable Backup- and Expiration Intervals.

* Organized File structure to find backups easily.

== Installation

== Configuration

# Create the file config.rb and set up your webservers to backup (see config.rb.template for reference)

# Deploy your backup-host's public key on all your configured servers

   rake setup

== Usage

The following command runs the backup- routine, and should be configured to run automatically as a cronjob:

  rake backup

== Example configuration

  $projects = {

    "mywebsite" => {
      "sshHost"   => "www.mywebsite.com",   # Hostname to connect to via SSH
      "sshUser"   => "hwadmin",             # Username to connect as via SSH
      "sshPort"   => 22,                    # SSH- Port (Usually 22)
      "mysqlUser" => "root",                # MySQL User for dumping the database
      "mysqlPass" => "PASW1234",            # MySQL Password for dumping the database
      "mysqlDb"   => "mywebsite",           # MySQL Database to backup
      "interval"  => 86400,                 # Interval between backups in seconds
      "expire"    => 2592000                # Expiration time in seconds (backups will be deleted after expiring)
    }
  
  }

== Development

=== Source Repository

DBBackup is currently hosted at github. The github web page is
http://github.com/holzweg/dbbackup. The public git clone URL is

* git://github.com/holzweg/dbbackup.git

=== Issues and Bug Reports

Feature requests and bug reports can be made here

* https://github.com/holzweg/dbbackup/issues

== License

DBBackup is available under an MIT-style license:

  Copyright (c) 2013 Tobias Strebitzer

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
  a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
  "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
  without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
  distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
  permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
  the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
  included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
  EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
  MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
  NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE
  LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION
  OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION
  WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

= Other stuff

Author::   Tobias Strebitzer <tobias.strebitzer@holzweg.com>
Requires:: ruby, rake, mysql
